# How Do I Migrate to Logic Apps Standard?

#### [home](./readme.md) | [prev](./migration-process.md) | [next](./debug-local.md)

## Install Visual Studio Code
- [Download and install the Visual Studio Code editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Install the Azurite Storage Emulator Extension](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-use-azurite?tabs=visual-studio-code)
- Install the following Visual Studio Code extensions:
  - [Azure Account Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.azure-account)
  - [C# for Visual Studio Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.csharp)
- Install the following tools:
  - [.Net SDK 6.x.x](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0)
  - Azure Functions Core Tools - 4.x version
    - [Windows](https://github.com/Azure/azure-functions-core-tools/releases/tag/4.0.4865)
    - [macOS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-run-local?tabs=macos#install-the-azure-functions-core-tools)
    - [Linux](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-run-local?tabs=linux#install-the-azure-functions-core-tools)
- [Install the Azure Logic Apps (Standard) Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurelogicapps)

## Group Logic Apps for Export

With the Azure Logic Apps (Standard) extension, you can combine multiple ISE-hosted logic app workflows into a single Standard logic app project.

Group logic apps where workflows share the same resources, such as integration account artifacts, maps, and schemas, or use resources through a chain of processes.

We recommend having no more than 10-15 workflows per logic app resource.

## Export ISE Workflows to a Local Project

- Open Visual Studio Code
- Sign in to Azure
- Select Azure from the left-hand navigation bar and expand the Logic Apps (Standard) view
- From the extension toolbar select Export Logic App...
- From the Export tab select your subscription and your ISE and click Next. The list of Logic Apps available for export will be displayed.
- Select the Logic Apps to export and click Next.
- The tool will validate the selected Logic Apps to determine if they are eligible for export.
- When validation completes, review the results by expanding each Logic App.
- Logic Apps will fall into one of three categories
  - Passed validation with no errors or warnings
  - Passed validation with warnings
  - Failed validation
- Logic Apps that passed validation with or without warnings are eligible for export. Any Logic Apps with warnings will need to have those issues addressed post-export.
- Logic Apps that failed validation will need to be remediated before they can be exported.
- If there are no Logic Apps that have failed validation, click Export or Export with warnings to proceed.
- On Finish Export select the local folder to store your Logic Apps Standard project.
- If your workflows have existing managed connections that you wish to deploy, select Deploy managed connections and choose the Resource Group where you want to deploy the managed connections.
- Review any required post-export steps and click Export and finish or Export with warnings and finish.
- When the process completes Visual Studio Code opens a new workspace. You can now close the export tab.
- Open and review the README.md file for the required post-export steps.

## Post Export
### Remediation Steps
- Review the README.md file generated by the export tool and address any issues identified by the export tool.
- Do not make any changes to the original Logic App in your ISE until you have tested your workflows in your Logic Apps Standard.
### Integration Account Actions and Settings
- If you export actions that are dependent on an integration account, you will need to add a reference link to the integration account to the Logic Apps Standard. More details can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/logic-apps/logic-apps-enterprise-integration-create-integration-account?tabs=azure-portal%2Cconsumption#link-account).
### Batch Actions and Settings
- If you export actions that use Batch actions with multiple configurations stored in an integration account, you have to manually configure your Batch actions with the correct values after export. More details can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/logic-apps/logic-apps-batch-process-send-receive-messages#create-batch-receiver).
