## Welcome to Azure Security Best Practices Powered by Defender for Cloud Secure Score!

### <ins> Agenda </ins>

-   Visibility & Control Challenge

-   Secure Score

-   Improve Secure Score

-   Remediate Recommendations

-   Exempt Resources from Recommendations and Secure Score

-   How to Prevent Misconfigurations

-   Disable Specific Findings

### <ins> Why Defender for Cloud? </ins>
As companies go through cloud adoption, the right level of visibility
and control over cloud workloads is an important governance aspect to
keep the commitment of a strong security posture. Today's organizations
are faced with protecting their expanded digital estate with increased
cyber threat presence.

Common challenges to this commitment are:

-   Visibility into the use of cloud computing applications, platform,
    or infrastructure services

-   Misconfiguration of cloud platforms -- this is the biggest threat to
    cloud security.

-   Adherence to compliance standards - it is essential to understand
    security controls required from those workloads and how they map to
    compliance standards.

**Defender for Cloud provides Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM)**
to address the three most urgent security challenges:

**Rapidly changing workloads & insecure configurations** -- How do you
make sure that the ever-changing services people are using and creating
are up to your security standards and follow security best practices?

**Increasingly sophisticated attacks** - You must secure your public
cloud workloads, which are, in effect, an Internet facing workload that
can leave you even more vulnerable if you don\'t follow security best
practices.

**Visibility into security and compliance** - Having end to end
visibility into your security and compliance and staying up to date with
the latest attacks is a constant challenge, making it impossible to stay
in place while the world of security is an ever-changing front.

### <ins> Secure Score </ins>

To help identify risks and drive secure workload deployment Defender for
Cloud has Secure Score. Secure Score provides:

-   Monitoring the health of your cross-cloud resources

-   Instant insight into the security state of your cloud workloads
    (**Visibility**)

-   Helps address security vulnerabilities with prioritized
    recommendations. (**Hardening**)

    -   Improve your Secure Score and overall security posture in
        minutes.

    -   Speed up regulatory compliance.

-   It is important to talk about Secure Score as it relates to
    monitoring

-   The Secure Score assessment is based on the built-in security
    recommendations from the Azure Security Baseline.

  <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security-center/secure-score-security-controls>

Attack path analysis helps you to address the security issues that pose
immediate threats with the greatest potential of being exploited in your
environment.


[Identify and remediate attack paths - Defender for Cloud \| Microsoft
Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/how-to-manage-attack-path)

[Tracking your secure score in Microsoft Defender for Cloud \| Microsoft
Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/secure-score-access-and-track)


[Tracking your secure score over
time](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/secure-score-access-and-track#tracking-your-secure-score-over-time)

#### <ins> Keynotes</ins>:

The security control called \"**Apply system updates**\" has a maximum
score of **6 points**, which you can see in the tooltip on the potential
increase value of the control.

**Max score **- The maximum number of points you can gain by completing
all recommendations within a control. The maximum score for a control
indicates the relative significance of that control. Use the max score
values to triage the issues to work on first.

#### <ins> Just in Time Access (JIT) </ins>

Access automatically granted for selected ports, and for limited time,
approved users, and source Ips

**Volumetric** **attacks** are by far the most common type of **DDoS**
**attacks**. According to Arbor Networks, 65% of **DDoS** **attacks**
are **volumetric** in nature. Although **volumetric** **attacks** are
characterized by an enormous amount of traffic (sometimes more than 100
Gbps), they do not mandate large amounts of traffic to be generated by
the hackers themselves.

Explain how this attack can lead to **Lateral Movement** (conversation):

[Exploitation of Remote Services, Technique T1210 - Enterprise \| MITRE
ATT&CK®](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1210/)

### <ins> Improve Secure Score Systematically </ins>

-   To improve your secure score, remediate security recommendations
    from your recommendations list.

-   Use the Recommendations and Secure Score pages to identify unhealthy
    resources.

-   After reviewing all the recommendations, decide which one to
    remediate first. Use Attack Paths as a way to determine which
    recommendations are most urgent in your environment. Secure score
    recommendations are also another guide to help improve the security
    posture in your environment.

-   Follow the instructions in the Remediation steps section.

-   Each recommendation has its own set of instructions.

[Implement security recommendations in Microsoft Defender for Cloud \|
Microsoft
Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/implement-security-recommendations)

-   You can remediate each recommendation manually or you can use
    **Fix!**

-   Use the **Fix** filter option to get your resources healthier with a
    single click.

-   You can also download a report of your recommendations to a CSV
    report.

[Download recommendations to a csv
report](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/review-security-recommendations#download-recommendations-to-a-csv-report)

Defender for Cloud can help prevent misconfiguration of new resources in
two ways:

-   **Deny** unhealthy resources from being created with a **Deny**
    policy from Azure Policy.

-   **Enforce** remediation of a non-compliant resource on creation with
    a **DeployIfNotExist** policy from Azure Policy.

[How to prevent misconfigurations with Microsoft Defender for Cloud \|
Microsoft
Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/prevent-misconfigurations)


Recommendations that can be enforced:

-   Diagnostic logs in Logic Apps should be enabled.

-   Diagnostic logs in Data Lake Analytics should be enabled.

-   Diagnostic logs in IoT Hub should be enabled.

-   Diagnostic logs in Batch accounts should be enabled.

-   Diagnostic logs in Azure Stream Analytics should be enabled.

-   Diagnostic logs in Search services should be enabled.

-   Diagnostic logs in Event Hub should be enabled.

-   Diagnostic logs in Virtual Machine Scale Sets should be enabled.

-   Diagnostic logs in Key Vault should be enabled.

-   Auditing on SQL server should be enabled.

-   Advanced data security should be enabled on your SQL servers.

-   Diagnostic logs on Service Bus should be enabled.

[Manage the owner and ETA of recommendations that are assigned to
you](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/review-security-recommendations#manage-the-owner-and-eta-of-recommendations-that-are-assigned-to-you)

[[Security teams can assign a
recommendation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/governance-rules) to
a specific person and assign a due date to drive your organization
towards increased security. If you have recommendations assigned to you,
you are accountable to remediate the resources affected by the
recommendations to help your organization be compliant with the security
policy.]{.mark}

Recommendations are listed as **on time** until their due date is
passed, when they are changed to **overdue**. Before the recommendation
is overdue, the recommendation does not impact the secure score. The
security team can also apply a grace period during which overdue
recommendations continue to not impact the secure score.

**Recommendations that can by deny policies:**

-   Virtual machines should be migrated to new Azure Resource Manager
    resources.

-   Storage accounts should be migrated to the newer v2 Storage Account
    type.

-   All authorization rules except RootManageSharedAccessKey should be
    removed from Event Hub namespace.

-   All authorization rules except RootManageSharedAccessKey should be
    removed from Service Bus namespace.

-   Secure transfer to Storage Accounts should be enabled.

-   Only secure connections to your Redis Cache should be enabled.

-   Automation account variables should be encrypted.

-   Service Fabric clusters should only use Azure Active Directory for
    client authentication.

-   Service Fabric clusters should have the ClusterProtectionLevel
    property set to EncryptAndSign

-   Audit unrestricted network access to storage accounts

[Working with security policies \| Microsoft
Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/tutorial-security-policy#disable-security-policies-and-disable-recommendations)

Disabling recommendations

[Exempt a Microsoft Defender for Cloud recommendation from a resource,
subscription, management group, and secure score \| Microsoft
Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/exempt-resource)

**Policy and Governance:**

-   Streamline the process for meeting regulatory compliance
    requirements.

-   Focus your attention on the gaps in compliance with a standard or
    regulation that is important to you.

-   Insights into your compliance posture based on continuous
    assessments of your Azure environment.

-   The assessments performed by Defender for Cloud analyze risk factors
    in your hybrid cloud environment in accordance with security best
    practices.

<https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security-center/security-center-compliance-dashboard>

[Create custom Azure security policies in Microsoft Defender for Cloud
\| Microsoft
Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/custom-security-policies?pivots=azure-portal)
